Hello, everyone.
So in the series of learning how to make projects in Java today, we are going to learn about this project
which is called as ATM Management System.
So in this project, which is actually made in core Java, we will be learning about that, how actually
our management system works, what are the like input fields and accordingly, what are the outputs
attached to those inputs correspond like those corresponding inputs and how actually everything works
inside.
And real time management system.
So on your screens you can see the opening window of like this application which we are going to make
today.
And in this application, initially, this page will open like saying this title as.
Welcome to the Team Project.
Initially, there will be two options that we will have to type either one or two.
One will be for logging in into the management system if you are already existing user.
Otherwise, if you are new user, then you have to type two in order to create a new account.
So suppose we are like a new user, so we will be wishing to create a new account in this system.
So we will be choosing choice to on hitting to from your keyboards.
We will enter in a window asking for our customer number.
So suppose I have entered ask any random customer number as one, two, three, four.
Then after this customer number entering process, we will be asked to for entering a PIN number which
we want to register.
This is a very like security based thing.
So we have to keep our pin very private.
We have to enter our pin in very secure, security minded manner.
Like we do not have to enclose this pin to any other user or any other like our friends or relatives.
Only those people are able to know the pin who are actually very close to you, who will be accessing
your account.
So keep this in mind that this pin is very private, like logging in.
So yes, once you enter your customer number and your pin, then your account will be successfully like
registered in this ATM management system.
So once this is registered, then the next process will be to redirecting into logging.
So we have already discussed that if we are a new user, then we have to create an account and after
which we have to log in if we are existing customer.
So once we created the account, we become automatically the existing customer.
So we will be redirecting to login.
In the login process.
We will be asked for our customer number and our PIN number.
So we have to enter both and we have to remind this info in order to login in future also.
So like keep these things written somewhere or memorize these two credentials, your customer number
and your pin number.
So if you enter any of the wrong credentials, then automatically you will enter this system.
Like do not enter this system, you will exit the system automatically and login will be filled of course.
So once you enter the correct credentials then you have to like select the account you want to access.
So we have different types of accounts in this management system.
We have checking account, savings account, and the third option is to like exit this frame window
or whatever we save.
So once we enter our like choice of the types of account suppose we enter to or so we have entered to
our first savings account and we enter the framework of the savings account.
In this savings and account interface, we are provided with five options asking for that.
What we want to perform inside our account, whether we want to view the balance, withdraw the funds,
deposit the funds, transfer the funds, or exit this saving window.
Life Saving Accounts Window Interface.
So suppose we want to deposit funds as we have just created our account in this system.
So obviously there is no money.
So we have entered choice three for depositing funds.
As soon as we enter this option three for depositing funds automatically, this shows that current savings
account balance is zero, which is like natural.
We are a new user so we do not have any deposits already to this account.
So this will be asking that amount you want to deposit into your savings account.
So suppose we want to like deposit $10,000.
So yes, after this entering process, the money will be deposited to your account.
Current savings account balance will reflect a value of $10,000, which is addition to this initial
like $0.
So after this, suppose we want to perform any other like tasks.
So yes.
So the second choice will be to withdraw funds.
So suppose we have deposited funds to our account then a few days later or after, like for checking
initially we want to check that even if the withdraw is working correctly or not, we want to withdraw
some money from our like deposited money.
So current savings account balance will be reflected every time we enter any of the choices.
It will show that you have this money, then decide what money you want to deposit or transfer or anything
you wish to.
So suppose we want to like withdraw $2,000 from our savings account.
So after the like withdrawal of money, the current saving account balance will be reduced.
Obviously we have withdraw some money.
So the current saving account balance will reflect a value which will be like the subtracted value from
the initial account balance and the withdrawal of money, like the money which we withdraw on.
So after this, our current savings account balance will be $8,000, which is very natural.
We have withdrawn 2000.
So what is left?
This is left after this.
Suppose in the next step we want to like option fortieths, transfer the funds.
So once we enter the key for from our keyboard in the transfer funds option or the function will be
activated.
So what is actually transfer funds?
So we have to firstly like select the type of account from which we want to transfer the funds.
The fund transfer could be to anyone, our friends, our relatives, any professional use or anything
so we can choose like from which type of account we want to transfer the funds.
So we are already in the savings account interface.
So we just have to like switch to checking.
There is no savings account option for her also.
So yes, suppose I want to like transfer the funds from checking type of account.
So I have choose option one.
So current savings account balance will be shown.
You may be wondering that why it is showing savings account balance.
I have choose this checking account because we have no balance in our checking account balance.
So it will automatically like reflect the savings account balance and from there only we can transfer
the funds.
So amount you want to deposit into your savings account so we can transfer the funds between savings
account and checking account.
So from the checking account we are amount to deposit our savings account.
So the current checking account balance will become $1 and the savings account balance will become $7,999
automatically.
This value is subtracted.
We have 8000 in our savings account.
We want to transfer funds to our checking account as we have no money in our checking account.
So we are like transferring funds between our own accounts right now to check the functionalities of
the system.
Okay.
So we are done with the transfer fund.
The thing now, the next process we are going to check is view balance.
So automatically view balances working with every step.
But there is a dedicated functionalities for viewing balance.
Like just we have to view balance, nothing else.
So on pressing one, our savings account balance will automatically reflect as we are currently in our
savings account interface.
Now our next process is to exit.
So we have exited this savings account interface on hitting five from our keyboard.
Now again, we are back in the interface which was like initially present at the time of the logging.
Like we have run this program and this was the actual on logging in, this was the actual interface.
We were like, See?
So yes, we are done with every checking of functionality and our next choice will be to exit this management
system interface.
So on hitting three, this message will appear there.
Thank you for using this item and you will be exiting the interface of the item management system.
Now you may be wondering that we are going to make this project.
So what will be the call like?
Things we will be like keeping in mind before making this project.
So this is basically item management system.
We have already discussed it, so we are going to manage everything about this item management system,
all the functionalities we just encountered in the previous slide.
We will be making everything on our own writing code from scratch.
Everything will be done a step by step and like we are going to manage everything about this system,
what actually the system is providing facilities.
So this is for like accessing different types of account.
We have already seen accounts, checking account, savings accounts and the functionalities is to withdraw
money, check balance, depositing money.
And also we can transfer funds within account with a feature of choosing the account step, which we
have already seen in the previous slides.
So this is the basic specification of the project we are going to make.
These are the functionalities which we we will be writing the program about.
So yes, after all the specification part, you may be wondering that what are the concepts we are going
to learn after the successful completion of this project?
So the first thing we are going to learn is object oriented programming in Java.
So after the completion of this project, you will be having a good grasp at object oriented programming
and what actually object oriented programming is.
It is about like tackling the real world entities.
Objects are real world entities and we are like learning object oriented programming.
So everything will be around objects, methods and classes only.
Now the second thing we are going to learn is to make a Java application from scratch so everything
will be done step by step.
We are going to like write everything one by one, explaining every part and not going to miss anything.
We are going to learn data structures such as hash maps, which case added strings and so on.
So there are like plenty of knowledge about data structures.
We will beginning in Java after the completion of this project, our Java idea management system will
be the output after this completion of this project.
And of course that is object oriented programming.
Then there will be definitely classes and objects.
So basically it is going to be a good concept based project that is no fancy like interface we are going
to make.
We are just going to learn the concepts, the basics and all the things about the ATM management system.
In Java.
And after the completion of this project, you will be mindful about all the concepts, whether it be
object oriented programming, whether it be data structures in Java and everything.
And I hope that after the completion you will grasp a lot knowledge about Java and become confident
in making projects in Java with your own.
So in the next part we will be looking up to the working of this project.
So see you in the next part.